---
title: OMB FedRAMP Memo
permalink: /2024-07-25-new-fedramp-policy-memo-released/
body-class: page-blog
image: /assets/img/blog-images/2023-10-27-OMB-fedramp-memo.png
author: FedRAMP
layout: blog-page
---
Today, the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released the finalized M-24-15, “Modernizing the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)”. OMB has also released a fact sheet with more  details on whitehouse.gov.

The new policy establishes strategic goals and calls for significant shifts in FedRAMP operations, with a focus on clearly positioning FedRAMP as a security and risk management program, significantly scaling the FedRAMP marketplace, and streamlining and automating more of the authorization process. 
The updated policy further reinforces the priorities we highlighted in March in FedRAMP’s public roadmap, which has been driving the recent work of the program.

FedRAMP has already taken several steps to shift its operations, governance, and strategy in alignment with the policy:
- <b>Expanding paths to authorization:</b> FedRAMP will be conducting “program authorizations” for some cloud service providers (CSPs) without an agency sponsor. In the short term, this path will be for CSPs who were either queued or prioritized to work with the JAB, with a future focus on building out criteria and an approach for opening this path market-wide. FedRAMP will share more about this in an upcoming post about the JAB Transition.
- <b>Creating new <a href="https://www.fedramp.gov/2024-06-04-fedramp-governance/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">governance</a> and technical capacity:</b> The new <a href="https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/fedramp-board-launched-to-support-safe-secure-use-05142024" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">FedRAMP Board</a> has been established and begun its work, with a backlog of business established. As part of their role, the Board will be convening federal agency IT leaders to form authorization groups of multiple agencies, to jointly perform authorizations that leverage trust and shared needs between those agencies, to expand the FedRAMP authorizing capacity of the federal ecosystem. The <a href="https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/fedramp-launches-technical-advisory-group-to-help-05212024" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Technical Advisory Group</a> has been working with FedRAMP on multiple items to include in process encryption guidance.
- <b>Integrating agile principles into the authorization process:</b> FedRAMP launched an <a href="https://www.fedramp.gov/2024-07-10-launch-of-the-fedramp-pilot-program/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">agile delivery pilot</a>,  focused on testing a new non-blocking process for reviewing significant changes, with an initial focus on new feature additions to existing cloud service offerings (CSOs). We are accepting applications through the end of the day today, and our goal is to use what we learned from this pilot to eventually replace the current “significant change request” process with an approach that does not require advance approval for each change.
- <b>Streamlining and automating more of the authorization process:</b> We <a href="https://www.fedramp.gov/2024-07-11-new-website-launch-automate-fedramp-gov/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">launched</a> <a href="http://automate.fedramp.gov" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">automate.fedramp.gov</a>, which is the home for all documentation that supports CSPs throughout the process of authoring an Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL)-based digital authorization package, and to support developers of tools that help create digital authorization packages.

One of the major questions that you can expect to hear more about from us next week is how these changes impact CSPs with JAB authorizations. We’ve worked closely with the JAB Technical Representatives to gain concurrence on a transition approach, which has been shared with our Board, and we’ll be sharing more on that publicly after communicating directly with those impacted CSPs. We know that many of our stakeholders will have questions about how these shifts impact their experience with FedRAMP, and we’ll be publishing FAQs on our website about this. To submit a question, please fill out this form.

Finally, we’d like to thank all of our stakeholders who participated in our public forums and submitted comments on the draft policy memo released in October. We read them all, and we appreciate everyone’s input into this process. We are excited about the future direction for the program and look forward to continuing to engage the public in our evolution. 
