---
layout: base-markdown
title: FedRAMP RFC-0004 Boundary Policy
tab-title: FedRAMP RFC-0004 Boundary Policy
permalink: /updates/rfcs/0004/
redirect_from: /rfcs/0004/
summary:
---

# FedRAMP Boundary Policy

> - Status: Open
> - Created By: FedRAMP
> - Start Date: 2025-01-16
> - Closing Date: 2025-02-17
> - Short Name: rfc0004-boundary-policy

## Where to Comment

- Discussion Forum:
  [https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfc0004-boundary-policy/discussions](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfc0004-boundary-policy/discussions)
- Public Comment Spreadsheet:
  [https://app.smartsheetgov.com/b/form/00503546a1c444528a6073cb52f84d33](https://app.smartsheetgov.com/b/form/00503546a1c444528a6073cb52f84d33)
- Email: pete@fedramp.gov with the subject "RFC 0004 Feedback"

## Summary

This draft policy opens discussion on clarifications for the documentation and
assessment of the FedRAMP boundary and the reuse of FedRAMP authorized cloud
service offerings by cloud service providers.

> Draft guidance released in the FedRAMP Request for Comment (RFC) process
> should not be considered formal or finalized. The initial public comment
> period for this draft will be 30 days. Depending on the outcome of this
> comment period, there may be further rounds of public comment after additional
> edits. Once public comment is concluded, FedRAMP’s goal will be to finalize
> this policy with the FedRAMP Board within two months.

This draft policy indicates that the FedRAMP boundary must include all services
that:

1. handle federal information; and/or
2. directly impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of federal
   information

Services not meeting the above criteria should be excluded from the FedRAMP
boundary with appropriate justification and risk-based review. Ancillary
services whose compromise would pose negligible risk to federal information or
federal information systems are explicitly outside the scope of FedRAMP.

## Motivation

The assessment of cloud service offerings under FedRAMP should be limited,
wherever possible and appropriate, to systems and services whose compromise
would pose a risk to the security of federal information. The inclusion of
ancillary services with negligible impact on federal information in the FedRAMP
boundary creates an unnecessary burden on cloud service providers, third party
assessment organizations, and government agencies during the initial
authorization and ongoing monitoring of cloud service offerings. This increased
burden may result in reduced effective security as effort is spread across
disparate systems that pose negligible risk; effort should instead be focused
explicitly on the aspects of a cloud service offering that pose meaningful risk.

External services that pose meaningful risk to federal information must be
included in the FedRAMP boundary, but the reuse of FedRAMP authorized external
services should be incentivized to reduce duplication of effort. Only
documentation and assessment of the configuration or customer implementation (as
defined in the Customer Responsibility Matrix) of a FedRAMP authorized external
service should be required. Agency review teams should separately review the
underlying security of external cloud services with FedRAMP authorizations for a
complete risk picture when making an authorization decision.

## Explanation

The full draft policy is approximately six pages and is available for review as
follows:

- [Basic web formatting on fedramp.gov](https://www.fedramp.gov/updates/rfcs/0004) (below)
- [Basic text markdown on GitHub](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfc0004-boundary-policy/blob/main/rfc/assets/0004-boundary-policy.md)
- [PDF file: 0004-boundary-policy.pdf](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfc0004-boundary-policy/blob/main/rfc/assets/0004-boundary-policy.pdf)
- [Word file: 0004-boundary-policy.docx](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfc0004-boundary-policy/raw/refs/heads/main/rfc/assets/0004-boundary-policy.docx)

This draft policy does not include examples; updates and clarifications are
expected in the public comment and agency review process. There will be multiple
iterations on this policy during this process, with examples to be provided once
an initial version is adopted as formal policy.

## Discussion Requested

FedRAMP stakeholders will be impacted differently by separate areas of this
proposed update to how cloud service offering boundaries should be determined
and assessed. These changes are intended to decrease the burden of FedRAMP
authorization while increasing the focus on the security of the highest risk
aspects of cloud services.

FedRAMP seeks to understand how these changes would impact varying sets of
stakeholders and what additional changes and clarifications would be recommended
to find the right balance between security, cost, and complexity for all
parties.

FedRAMP also encourages the public to provide example scenarios during public
comment periods to clearly highlight where and how this guidance can be
clarified in future knowledge base articles.

### Editorial Comments

1. This policy explicitly limits the FedRAMP boundary to a subset of the full
   traditional authorization boundary. If a SaaS offering runs on a FedRAMP
   authorized PaaS then both the SaaS offering and the aspects of the PaaS used
   by the SaaS offering would be inside the agency Authorization to Operate
   boundary but the FedRAMP authorization will only include the SaaS offering
   and its configuration of the PaaS. This is difficult to convey effectively in
   general due to the many dimensions of reuse. Examples are recommended, but
   how can this be standardized clearly without examples?\_

   _Ex: Control MP-06 (Media Protection, Media Sanitization) requires that media
   be sanitized prior to disposal. A SaaS CSO does not need to address the
   implementation of MP-06 by the FedRAMP authorized PaaS it is leveraging, but
   may need to address MP-06 implementations for laptops used by site
   reliability engineers managing the SaaS CSO. Agencies issuing an ATO for the
   SaaS CSO would need to review the full MP-06 implementation from the
   underlying PaaS to make an appropriate risk assessment for transferring data
   into the SaaS CSO, however._

2. This draft introduces the plain language idea of “handling” federal
   information as inherently inclusive of everything one can do with information
   without continuously providing a long list of verbs (“create, collect,
   process, store, transmit, access, maintain, use, disseminate, disclose,
   dispose, etc.”). Is this sufficiently clear?

3. FRR211: This rule is intended to convey that restrictions on external
   connections may not be used by a cloud service provider to deny access to the
   owner of federal information in a cloud service offering. A cloud service
   offering may allow agency authorized services to interconnect with the cloud
   service offering and only needs to document the relevant mechanisms within
   the cloud service offering. For example, if a cloud service offering allows
   authenticated API access to information, then any system used by the agency
   to access that information is outside the FedRAMP boundary but not prevented
   under this rule. This is a difficult process rule to communicate. Providing
   comment on improving clarity here would be appreciated.

---

# FedRAMP Boundary Policy **Working DRAFT**

APPLICABILITY

This policy defines requirements and recommendations related to FedRAMP
boundaries for the following parties:

- **Cloud service providers (CSPs)** who participate or want to participate in
  the FedRAMP marketplace
- **Independent assessors (IAs)** who perform third-party cybersecurity
  assessments for cloud service offerings (CSOs) through their FedRAMP packages.
  IAs conduct both initial and periodic evaluations of CSOs to ensure they
  comply with federal security requirements. IAs are also known as _third-party
  assessment organizations (3PAOs)_.
- **Package reviewers from _FedRAMP designated leads_,** who are federal
  agencies responsible for sponsoring CSPs for FedRAMP authorization. A
  designated lead can be:
  - An authorizing official at a federal agency; or
  - The FedRAMP Director at GSA in the case of a program-sponsored
    authorization.

The purpose of this guidance is to establish greater consistency and a shared
interpretation of which systems and data fall within a FedRAMP authorized
boundary, and which do not, across all FedRAMP authorization pathways.

This guidance is normative and applies to **all** FedRAMP authorizations, and is
required to be followed by **all** cloud service providers (CSPs) and **all**
federal sponsors of FedRAMP authorizations (individual agencies, multi-agency
constructs, and FedRAMP itself in the case of program authorizations).

CSPs and IAs must adhere to this version of the policy by MONTH DD, 2025\.
Package reviewers from FedRAMP designated leads must adhere to this version of
the policy starting on MONTH DD, 2025\.

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

[1\. Policy Overview 4](#1.-policy-overview)

[1.1 Reuse of FedRAMP Authorized Cloud Service Offerings 4](#1.1-reuse-of-fedramp-authorized-cloud-service-offerings)

[1.2 Operations Outside the FedRAMP Boundary 4](#1.2-operations-outside-the-fedramp-boundary)

[2\. Requirements and Recommendations 5](#2.-requirements-and-recommendations)

[2.1 Cloud Service Providers 5](#2.1-cloud-service-providers)

[2.1.1 FedRAMP Boundary Definition 5](#2.1.1-fedramp-boundary-definition)

[2.1.2 FedRAMP Boundary Protection of Information 6](#2.1.2-fedramp-boundary-protection-of-information)

[2.1.3 FedRAMP Boundary Restrictions on Inbound and Outbound Connections 6](#2.1.3-fedramp-boundary-restrictions-on-inbound-and-outbound-connections)

[2.2 Independent Assessors (IAs) 6](<#2.2-independent-assessors-(ias)>)

## 1\. Policy Overview

The FedRAMP boundary defines the scope of a Cloud Service Offering (CSO) that
must be assessed for FedRAMP authorization.

The **_FedRAMP boundary_** includes all aspects of the CSO, including external
services, that:

1. handle[^1] federal information; and/or
2. directly impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of federal
   information

This includes all services to be consumed by tenants/customers and the
underlying components, infrastructure, and services (including external
services), that handle federal information as part of the CSO and the related
organizational users operating the service. It also includes privileged security
tooling, authentication systems, management/orchestration, and keying material
and secrets.

Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) and Independent Assessors (IAs) are encouraged to
engage FedRAMP when navigating complex scenarios about when services should be
inside the boundary or not. FedRAMP will create and maintain a
[knowledge base](https://help.fedramp.gov) of examples with specific guidance
where appropriate to help CSPs and IAs navigate this.

_[^1]: inclusive of any possible use of information, including creation,
collection, processing, storing, transmitting, accessing, disposing, etc._

### **1.1 Reuse of FedRAMP Authorized Cloud Service Offerings**

CSPs can leverage existing FedRAMP authorized cloud service offerings as part of
their CSO to streamline their engineering and authorization process. Reusing a
FedRAMP authorized cloud service offering will allow the CSO to inherit the
existing implementation, assessment, and testing of services from those cloud
service offerings without including the entirety of those offerings inside the
FedRAMP boundary.

The relevant inherited controls from leveraged FedRAMP authorized cloud service
providers should be reviewed during reuse or agency assessment for an
Authorization to Operate but should not be duplicated in the FedRAMP boundary or
assessment for the CSO. Documentation and assessment of leveraged FedRAMP
authorized cloud service offerings used by the CSO should be limited to the
configuration of leveraged services following guidelines in the leveraged
service’s Customer Responsibility Matrix (CRM) and remaining in compliance with
[CISA BOD 25-01: Implementation Guidance for Implementing Secure Practices for Cloud Services](https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/directives/bod-25-01-implementation-guidance-implementing-secure-practices-cloud-services).

### **1.2 Operations Outside the FedRAMP Boundary**

Ancillary services that support the CSP or CSO but pose negligible[^2] or no
direct risk to federal information should remain outside the FedRAMP boundary.
These systems may be documented in the SSP front matter and other diagrams as
appropriate to demonstrate operations of the CSO. Interactions with such systems
will be reviewed by the IA to affirm that they pose the low level of risk as
documented, but systems that pose this low risk will not be tested by the IA.

Examples of ancillary services that _may_ be outside the FedRAMP boundary
include corporate email services, development environments, and customer service
systems where a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability is not
likely to directly affect federal information within the CSO.

_[^2]: so small that it is not worth considering; any foreseeable risk would be
merely an inconvenience_

## 2\. Requirements and Recommendations

This section defines requirements and recommendations related to FedRAMP
boundaries for three types of stakeholders: CSPs, IAs, and package reviewers
from FedRAMP designated leads.

Each requirement and recommendation has an identifier that is unique across
FedRAMP policies. This identification approach enables referencing specific
requirements and recommendations in this and other resources.

### **2.1 Cloud Service Providers**

CSPs are responsible for defining the FedRAMP boundary for each of their CSOs,
protecting information and components within each boundary, and safeguarding the
environments of operation. The following requirements and recommendations apply
to all FedRAMP authorized CSOs unless otherwise stated.

#### **2.1.1 FedRAMP Boundary Definition**

- **FRR201:** CSPs **shall** include all CSO services and their underlying
  components, infrastructure, and services (including external services) that:

  - handle federal information; and/or

  - directly impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of federal
    information.

- **FRR202**: CSPs **shall** include any components required to be installed or
  run on a tenant system in order to use the CSO and may include additional
  optional components if they are included in the SSP.

- **FRR203:** CSPs **shall** document all components, their relationships, data
  flows, types, encryption employed, access and policy enforcement points,
  security components, and ports/protocols/services used in the SSP.

- **FRR204:** CSPs **shall** address only the customer responsibilities for any
  FedRAMP authorized cloud service offerings that they wish to inherit controls
  from. Configurations must comply with
  [CISA BOD 25-01: Implementation Guidance for Implementing Secure Practices for Cloud Services](https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/directives/bod-25-01-implementation-guidance-implementing-secure-practices-cloud-services).

- **FRR205:** CSPs **shall** update boundary documentation as architectures
  evolve and as protections or data flows change. CSPs **shall** reflect such
  updates promptly in SSPs, continuous monitoring reports, and in the POA\&M
  where they deviate from these requirements.

#### **2.1.2 FedRAMP Boundary Protection of Information**

- **FRR206:** CSPs **shall** designate a System Owner for the CSO who has
  sufficient organizational authority to enforce all policies, procedures, and
  control implementations which affect the FedRAMP boundary, including
  contractual obligations with third parties.

- **FRR207:** CSPs **shall** **not** reuse federal information for shared
  purposes unless the government tenant specifically opts in to such sharing or
  grants access to the information. CSPs **shall** ensure that external services
  that handle federal information are configured to meet this requirement. This
  requirement applies to machine learning models trained on federal information.

- **FRR208:** CSPs **shall** ensure that security and administrative
  configuration, secrets, key material, and agents are managed within the
  FedRAMP boundary and are documented within the SSP.

- **FRR209:** CSPs **shall** document and maintain information exchange
  agreements for all external systems within the FedRAMP boundary. This
  **shall** include the information types, encryption employed,
  ports/protocols/services used, access levels, and the requirement to meet
  FedRAMP security requirements.

- **FRR210:** CSPs **shall** ensure that federal information sent to public or
  commercial services used to support the function of a CSO is limited to
  information approved by the owner of the federal information.

#### **2.1.3 FedRAMP Boundary Restrictions on Inbound and Outbound Connections**

- **FRR211:** CSPs **shall not** permit any systems outside the FedRAMP boundary
  to directly access federal information or to make changes to the security of
  the FedRAMP boundary except when approved by the owners of the federal
  information.

- **FRR212:** CSPs **shall** document all connections established between the
  FedRAMP boundary and systems in the environment of operations, including the
  data types, encryption employed, ports/protocols/services used, the level of
  access, and the service or component involved.

### **2.2 Independent Assessors (IAs)**

- **FRR216:** IAs **shall** test all components within the FedRAMP boundary and
  **shall** review and evaluate connections to systems outside the FedRAMP
  boundary as documented by the CSP following FRR201-212**.**

- **FRR217:** IAs **shall** review data flows between the FedRAMP boundary and
  the environment of operations, and **shall** validate the impact
  categorization of the data in those services, the presence of appropriate
  certifications, and ensure they have no direct security impact or privileged
  access to the federal information.

- **FRR219:** IAs **shall** document deviations from this guidance within the
  SAR, POA\&M, and other materials.
